Add mainnet overview page (#1853)
LiskHQ/lisk-docs: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/understand-blockchain/blocks-txs.adoc

----
====

> === Block Rewards

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Block rewards
```

Validators receive a dynamic reward for generating a block.

//TODO: Add link to module typedocs
This is performed by the Dynamic Rewards module, whose main purpose is to compute the block rewards according to the validator weight for active validators:
//This is performed by the xref:{}[Dynamic Rewards module], whose main purpose is to compute the block rewards according to the validator weight for active validators:

> ==== Minimum Reward for Active Validators

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Minimum reward for active validators
```

> A minimum reward i.e. `minimumRewardActiveValidators` is assigned per round to all active validators to cover the minimal operational cost to run a validator.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A minimum reward i.e., `minimumRewardActiveValidators` is assigned per round to all active validators to cover the minimal operational cost to run a validator.
```

SharedRewardsFactor::
It determines the percentage of rewards assigned equally to all active validators.
The percentage can be obtained by dividing the value by 100, i.e., a value of 1000 corresponds to 10%.
In principle, if the percentage of rewards shared equally among the active validators is set to 0%, then it will be a proof-of-stake system where the rewards are proportional to the validator weight.
On the other hand, if the percentage of rewards shared equally among the active validators is set to 100%, it will be the previous proof-of-stake (PoS) system where each validator received the same reward for generating a block irrespective of their weights.
+
For the Lisk mainchain, the factor is: 1000 (10%).

minimumRewardActiveValidators::
The minimum reward per round for an active validator.
+
----
SharedRewardsFactor * (getDefaultRewardAtHeight(blockHeader.height)) / 10000)
----
+

> `blockHeader.height` corresponds to the current block height and `getDefaultRewardAtHeight` return the <<default-block-reward>> for the respective height.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`blockHeader.height` corresponds to the current block height and `getDefaultRewardAtHeight` returns the <<default-block-reward>> for the respective height.
```

+
For the Lisk mainchain, the minimum reward is calculated like this:
+
----
10^7^ Beddows or 0.1 LSK = 1000 * (100000000 / 10000) = 1000 * 10000
----

> ==== Rewards Proportional to the Validators Weight

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Rewards proportional to the validators weight
```

The remaining stake rewards i.e., `stakeRewardActiveValidators` are distributed proportional to the validators weight.
It is given to the active validators (per round) after giving the <<minimum-reward-for-active-validators,minimum reward>>.

For the Lisk mainchain, the total rewards are calculated like this{fnlip71}:

totalRewardActiveValidators::
The total reward per round for active validators.
Here `blockHeader.height` is the current block height.
+
----
Pos.getActiveValidatorsNumber * getDefaultRewardAtHeight(blockHeader.height)
----
* `Pos.getActiveValidatorsNumber` corresponds to the number of active validators in the network.

> * `blockHeader.height` corresponds to the current block height and `getDefaultRewardAtHeight` return the <<default-block-reward>> for the respective height.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `blockHeader.height` corresponds to the current block height and `getDefaultRewardAtHeight` returns the <<default-block-reward>> for the respective height.
```

+
For the Lisk mainchain, the total reward per round is calculated like this:
+
----
101 * 10^8^ Beddows or 101 LSK = 101 * 100000000 Beddows
----

stakeRewardActiveValidators::
The remaining rewards for active validators (per round) after giving the minimum reward.
+
----
totalRewardActiveValidators - Pos.getActiveValidatorsNumber * minimumRewardActiveValidators
----
+
For the Lisk mainchain, the total reward per round is calculated like this:
+
----
90.9 * 10^8^ Beddows or 90.9 LSK = 10100000000 - (101 * 10000000) = 101 * 10^8 - 101 * 10^7^
----

> ==== Default Reward for StandBy Validators

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Default reward for standby validators
```

The default reward `defaultRewardStandByValidators` is assigned to all stand-by validators i.e., there is a fixed reward irrespective of the validator weight.

This helps stand-by validators to cover the costs of running a node even though the probability of the selection is low in a round.

defaultRewardStandByValidators::
The default reward per round for standby validators irrespective of their validator weight.
+
----
getDefaultRewardAtHeight(blockHeader.height)
----
+
For the Lisk mainchain, the default reward for standby validators is: 10^8^ Beddows or 1 LSK.

==== Default block reward
The amount for the default block reward depends on the block height according to the table shown below:

.Default block rewards for the Lisk Mainnet
[cols="1,1",options="header",stripes="hover"]
|===
|Heights
|Reward

|From 1,451,520 to 4,451,519
|5 LSK

|From 4,451,520 to 7,451,519
|4 LSK

|From 7,451,520 to 10,451,519
|3 LSK

|From 10,451,520 to 13,451,519
|2 LSK

|From 13,451,520 onwards
|1 LSK
|===

> ==== Minting of the Rewards

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Minting of the rewards
```

After applying the block, a certain quantity of the native token of the blockchain is minted.
The exact amount assigned to the block generator.

> In terms of inflation, currently in the Lisk mainchain, there is a maximum minting of `6 * 60 * 24 * 365 = 3153600 LSK` per year.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Currently, in the Lisk mainchain, the inflation is limited to a maximum minting of `6 * 60 * 24 * 365 = 3153600 LSK` per year.
```

> ==== Minting of the Rewards
> After applying the block, a certain quantity of the native token of the blockchain is minted.
> The exact amount assigned to the block generator.
> 
> Currently, in the Lisk mainchain, the inflation is limited to a maximum minting of `6 * 60 * 24 * 365 = 3153600 LSK` per year.
> Every time a validator misses their block, 1 LSK less is minted per year.
> 
> ==== Reward for Missed blocks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Minting of the rewards
After applying the block, a certain quantity of the native token of the blockchain is minted.
The exact amount assigned to the block generator.

Currently, in the Lisk mainchain, the inflation is limited to a maximum minting of `6 * 60 * 24 * 365 = 3153600 LSK` per year.
Every time a validator misses their block, 1 LSK less is minted per year.

==== Reward for missed blocks
```

Validators get rewards proportional to the validator weight.
If a validator misses a block, then another validator will be chosen to generate the block.

> To respect the maximum of 3153600 newly minted LSK per year, and to ensure it will not be profitable for any validator if any other validator misses a block, validators who generate blocks for the second time in the round, get the <<minimum-reward-for-active-validators,minimumRewardActiveValidators>> for the second block.

Reviewer: Can we also explain what happens to the remaining reward after assigning the `minimumRewardActiveValidators` to the second time block generator within a given round?

Also, it'd be nice to highlight that this is applicable within a single round.

Author: I am not sure what you are referring to, can you please elaborate?

Reviewer: Please ignore the second part, it's already covered. 👍

Reviewer: I think, it'd be better to make it explicit with an additional statement similar to:

```
This results in minting of the lesser tokens than expected, i.e. with every missed block the Dynamic Reward module mints `getDefaultRewardAtHeight(blockHeader.height) - minimumRewardActiveValidators` less tokens.
```

Author: This is already mentioned in line 388

==== Reward reduction
The reward can be reduced for various reasons{fnlip42}, specifically for not participating in BFT block finalization or failure to properly reveal the random seed.

[cols="1,1",options="header"]
|===
|Reason
|Reduction of the block reward

|Invalid seed reveal
|100%

|Not participating in BFT block finalization
|75%

|No account in user substore
|100%
|===

==== Transaction rewards

> Each transaction included in a block contains its own <<transaction-fees>>, which were paid by the sender of the transaction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each transaction included in a block contains its own <<transaction-fees>>, paid the transaction sender.
```

Author: ```suggestion
Each transaction included in a block contains its own <<transaction-fees>>, which were paid by the transaction sender.
```

A part of the transaction fees is directly burned: <<minimum-transaction-fee>>.

The unburned part of the <<transaction-fees>> is added together with the block reward to the balance of the validator who generated the block.

> This is done after all transactions in the payload have been applied.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is completed after all transactions in the payload have been applied.
```

It should be noted that a validator cannot receive and spend the reward in the same block.

=== Projected token supply
Blockchains following the Lisk protocol do not have a bounded token supply.

> For every block generated, the amount of available tokens increases, as new tokens are minted for the <<block-rewards.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For every block generated, the amount of available tokens increases, as new tokens are minted for the <<block-rewards>>.
```

> This increase is obtained by subtracting the burned fees from the block reward.

Reviewer: Should we link `<<minimum-transaction-fee>>` to the term `burned fees` in the statement above so that the users clearly understand what gets burned?

----
====

=== Block Rewards
Validators receive a dynamic reward for generating a block.

//TODO: Add link to module typedocs
This is performed by the Dynamic Block Rewards module, whose main purpose is to compute the block rewards according to the validator weight for active validators:
//This is performed by the xref:{}[Dynamic Block Rewards module], whose main purpose is to compute the block rewards according to the validator weight for active validators:

==== Minimum Reward for Active Validators
A minimum reward i.e. `minimumRewardActiveValidators` is assigned per round to all active validators to cover the minimal operational cost to run a validator.

SharedRewardsFactor::
It determines the percentage of rewards assigned equally to all active validators.
The percentage can be obtained by dividing the value by 100, i.e., a value of 1000 corresponds to 10%.

> In principle, if percentage of rewards shared equally among active validators is set to 0%, then it will be a proof-of-stake system where rewards are proportional to the validator weight.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In principle, if the percentage of rewards shared equally among active validators is set to 0%, then it will be a proof-of-stake system where rewards are proportional to the validator weight.
```

> On the other hand, if the percentage of rewards shared equally among active validators is set to 100%, it will be the previous proof-of-stake (PoS) system where each validator received the same reward for generating a block irrespective of their weights.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On the other hand, if the percentage of rewards shared equally among the active validators is set to 100%, it will be the previous proof-of-stake (PoS) system where each validator received the same reward for generating a block irrespective of their weights.
```

+

> For the Lisk mainchain, factor is: 1000 (10%).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For the Lisk mainchain, the factor is: 1000 (10%).
```

For the Lisk mainchain, the total rewards are calculated like this{fnlip71}:

totalRewardActiveValidators::
The total reward per round for active validators.
Here `blockHeader.height` is the current block height.
+
----
Pos.getActiveValidatorsNumber * getDefaultRewardAtHeight(blockHeader.height)
----
* `Pos.getActiveValidatorsNumber` correspond the number of active validators in the network.
* `blockHeader.height` corresponds to the current block height and `getDefaultRewardAtHeight` return the <<default-block-reward>> for the respective height.
+
For the Lisk mainchain, the total reward per round is calculated like this:
+
----
101 * 10^8^ Beddows or 101 LSK = 101 * 100000000 Beddows
----

stakeRewardActiveValidators::
The remaining rewards for active validators (per round) after giving the minimum reward.
+
----
totalRewardActiveValidators - Pos.getActiveValidatorsNumber * minimumRewardActiveValidators
----
+
For the Lisk mainchain, the total reward per round is calculated like this:
+
----
90.9 * 10^8^ Beddows or 90.9 LSK = 10100000000 - (101 * 10000000) = 101 * 10^8 - 101 * 10^7^
----

==== Default Reward for StandBy Validators

> The default reward `defaultRewardStandByValidators` is assigned to all stand-by validators i.e. there is a fixed reward irrespective of the validator weight.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The default reward `defaultRewardStandByValidators` is assigned to all stand-by validators i.e., there is a fixed reward irrespective of the validator weight.
```

> For the Lisk mainchain,

Reviewer 2: imho I think we should remove the space on line 341 and list the sentence as follows:
"For the Lisk mainchain, this helps the stand-by validators to cover the costs of running a node even though the probability of the selection is low in a round."

defaultRewardStandByValidators::
The default reward per round for standby validators irrespective of their validator weight.
+
----
getDefaultRewardAtHeight(blockHeader.height)
----
+
For the Lisk mainchain, the default reward for standby validators is: 10^8^ Beddows or 1 LSK.

==== Default block reward
The amount for the default block reward depends on the block height according to the table shown below:

.Default block rewards for the Lisk Mainnet
[cols="1,1",options="header",stripes="hover"]
|===
|Heights
|Reward

|From 1,451,520 to 4,451,519
|5 LSK

|From 4,451,520 to 7,451,519
|4 LSK

|From 7,451,520 to 10,451,519
|3 LSK

|From 10,451,520 to 13,451,519
|2 LSK

|From 13,451,520 onwards
|1 LSK
|===

==== Minting of the Rewards
After applying the block, a certain quantity of the native token of the blockchain is minted.
The exact amount assigned to the block generator.

In terms of inflation, currently in the Lisk mainchain, there is a maximum minting of `6 * 60 * 24 * 365 = 3153600 LSK` per year.
Every time a validator misses their block, 1 LSK less is minted per year.

==== Reward for Missed blocks
Validators get rewards proportional to the validator weight.

> If a validator misses a block then a validator generating the block second time will get the reward proportional to their weight.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If a validator misses a block, then a validator generating the block the second time will get the reward proportional to their weight.
```

> If a validator misses a block then a validator generating the block second time will get the reward proportional to their weight.
> This results in imbalancing the total reward in a round.

Author: ```suggestion
If a validator misses a block then another validator will be chosen to generate the block.
```

----

stakeRewardActiveValidators::
The remaining rewards for active validators (per round) after giving the minimum reward.
+
----
totalRewardActiveValidators - Pos.getActiveValidatorsNumber * minimumRewardActiveValidators
----
+
For the Lisk mainchain, the total reward per round is calculated like this:
+
----
90.9 * 10^8^ Beddows or 90.9 LSK = 10100000000 - (101 * 10000000) = 101 * 10^8 - 101 * 10^7^
----

==== Default reward for standby validators
The default reward `defaultRewardStandByValidators` is assigned to all stand-by validators i.e., there is a fixed reward irrespective of the validator weight.

This helps stand-by validators to cover the costs of running a node even though the probability of the selection is low in a round.

defaultRewardStandByValidators::
The default reward per round for standby validators irrespective of their validator weight.
+
----
getDefaultRewardAtHeight(blockHeader.height)
----
+
For the Lisk mainchain, the default reward for standby validators is: 10^8^ Beddows or 1 LSK.

==== Default block reward
The amount for the default block reward depends on the block height according to the table shown below:

> .Milestones for the default block rewards of the Lisk Mainnet

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Default block reward milestones on the Lisk Mainnet
```
